(This file is generated by `py . lint`)

A benchfile lets us vary three different things: coreclrs, configs, and benchmarks.
The test runner uses all combinations of coreclrs тип configs тип benchmarks.
Each is a map with keys being arbitrary names.

Here's an example benchfile:

```yaml
coreclrs:
  clr_a:
    core_root: coreclr
    commit_hash: 930abba4060fb528db2bb9835a1bc5a6e684bfec
  clr_b:
    core_root: coreclr2
    commit_hash: ed52a006c01a582d4d34add40c318d6f324b99ba
options:
  collect: gc
  default_iteration_count: 3
common_config:
  complus_gcserver: true
  complus_gcconcurrent: false
configs:
  smaller:
    complus_gcgen0size: 16777216
  bigger:
    complus_gcgen0size: 33554432
benchmarks:
  nosurvive:
    executable: GCPerfSim
    arguments:
      tc: 8
      tagb: 500
      tlgb: 1
      lohar: 0
      sohsi: 50
      lohsi: 0
      sohpi: 0
      lohpi: 0
      sohfi: 0
      lohfi: 0
      allocType: reference
      testKind: time

```


# Detailed documentation of each type


## BenchFile

comment: `str | None`
  (ignored)

vary: `"machine" | "coreclr" | "config" | "benchmark" | None`
  Preferred property to vary when using `py . diff`

configs_vary_by: `[ConfigsVaryBy](#ConfigsVaryBy) | None`
  This is mostly set just for information.
  When there are many configs, this describes the one property that is changing.

coreclrs: `Mapping[str, [CoreclrSpecifier](#CoreclrSpecifier)]`
  Mapping from an (arbitrary) coreclr name to its specifier.

paths: `Mapping[str, Path] | None`
  Mapping of shorthand names for paths.
  If the 'executable' field of a Benchmark is a key in this mapping,
  it will be replaced with the corresponding value.

options: `[BenchOptions](#BenchOptions)`
  Additional options that apply to every test.

common_config: `[Config](#Config) | None`
  Config properties common to all configs.
  Properties set here should not overlap with anything in 'configs'.
  If omitted, the common config is empty.

configs: `Mapping[str, [Config](#Config)] | None`
  Mapping from an (arbitrary) config name to the config.
  Unlike coreclrs and benchmarks, this section is optional.
  If omitted, common_config will be used.

benchmarks: `Mapping[str, [Benchmark](#Benchmark)]`
  Mapping from an (arbitrary) benchmark name to the benchmark.

scores: `Mapping[str, Mapping[str, [ScoreElement](#ScoreElement)]] | None`
  Mapping from an (arbitrary) score name to its specifier.



## BenchOptions

collect: `"none" | "gc" | "verbose" | "cpu_samples" | "cswitch" | None`
  Kind of events to collect.
  Defaults to 'gc'.

  none: Do not collect any trace events.
  gc: Collect normal GC events.
  verbose: Collect verbose GC events, which includes join events.
  cpu_samples: Collect all of the above, and CPU samples.
  cswitch: Collect all of the above, and CSwitch events on Windows. No effect on Linux.

default_iteration_count: `int | None`
  Number of times to run the same test combination.
  "Defaults to 1.
  "Without this you will not get stdev.

default_min_seconds: `float | None`
  If a test is over in less than this many seconds, the test runner will throw an exception.
  This ensures that tests have sufficient data for performance analysis.
  May be overridden by Benchmark#min_seconds

default_max_seconds: `float | None`
  The test runner will stop a process that goes longer than this and fail.
  May be overridden by Benchmark#max_seconds.

max_trace_size_gb: `float | None`
  If the trace exceeds this size, old events will be discarded.
  Defaults to 1.

dotnet_path: `Path | None`
  Custom 'dotnet' path to use when building.
  Does not affect running.

dotnet_trace_path: `Path | None`
  Set this in case dotnet-trace is not in PATH.
  Useful for tests that must be run as super user.

dotnet_trace_buffersize_mb: `int | None`
  Value to pass to `--buffersize` argument of dotnet-trace, in MB.
  Default is dotnet-trace's default, currently 256MB.

always_use_dotnet_trace: `bool | None`
  Always use dotnet-trace to collect traces, even on Windows where PerfView is the default.
  Has no effect on non-Windows.
  Has no effect if `collect` is `none`.



## Benchmark

executable: `str | None`
  Path or key into 'paths' from the BenchFile.
  Defaults to "GCPerfSim".

arguments: `str | [GCPerfSimArgs](#GCPerfSimArgs) | None`
  Command line arguments to pass to the executable.
  For GCPerfSim, you can also specify GCPerfSimArgs, and it will be converted to a string for you.

iteration_count: `int | None`
  Defaults to options.default_iteration_count

min_seconds: `float | None`
  Defaults to options.default_min_seconds

max_seconds: `float | None`
  Defaults to options.default_max_seconds

only_configs: `Sequence[str] | None`
  Only run the test against configs with one of the specified names.



## Config
  Allows to set environment variables, and container and memory load options.
  WARN: Normally complus environment variables are specified in hexadecimal on the command line.
  But when specifying them in a yaml file, use decimal.

complus_gcserver: `bool | None`
  Set to true to use server GC.

complus_gcconcurrent: `bool | None`
  Set to true to allow background GCs.

complus_gcgen0size: `int | None`
  gen0size in bytes. (decimal)

complus_gcgen0maxbudget: `int | None`
  Max gen0 budget in bytes. (decimal)

complus_gcheapaffinitizeranges: `str | None`
  On non-Windows, this should look like: 1,3,5,7-9,12
  On Windows, this should include group numbers, like: 0:1,0:3,0:5,1:7-9,1:12

complus_gcheapcount: `int | None`
  Number of heaps. (decimal)
  Only has effect when complus_gcserver is set.

complus_gcheaphardlimit: `int | None`
  Hard limit on heap size, in bytes. (decimal)

complus_gclargepages: `bool | None`
  Set to true to enable large pages.

complus_gcnoaffinitize: `bool | None`
  Set to true to prevent affinitizing GC threads to cpu cores.

complus_gccpugroup: `bool | None`
  Set to true to enable CPU groups.

complus_gcnumaaware: `bool | None`
  Set to false to disable NUMA-awareness in GC

complus_thread_useallcpugroups: `bool | None`
  Set to true to automatically distribute threads across CPU Groups

complus_threadpool_forcemaxworkerthreads: `int | None`
  Overrides the MaxThreads setting for the ThreadPool worker pool

complus_tieredcompilation: `bool | None`
  Set to true to enable tiered compilation

container: `[TestConfigContainer](#TestConfigContainer) | None`
  Set to run the test in a container.
  A container is a job object on Windows, or cgroups / docker container on non-Windows.

affinitize: `bool | None`
  If true, this will be run in a job object affinitized to a single core.
  Only works on Windows.
  See `run_in_job.c`'s `--affinitize` option.

memory_load_percent: `float | None`
  If set, the test runner will launch a second process that ensures this percentage of the system's memory is consumed.



## ConfigsVaryBy

name: `str`
  Name of the property we are testing different values for.

default_values: `Mapping[str, float] | None`
  Value that coreclr would use without an explicit config.
  Key is a coreclr name.



## CoreclrSpecifier

self_contained: `bool | None`
  If this is set, benchmark executables should be self-contained.
  Then core_root and repo_path should not be set.

core_root: `Path | None`
  Path to a Core_Root directory built from coreclr.
  (Does not need to still be located inside a coreclr repository.)

repo_path: `Path | None`
  Instead of specifying Core_Root, you could specify the path to the repository.
  Core_Root will be the default location of a release build.

  When running on a remote machine, the coreclr path must already exist on that machine.
  It should be at the same path in every machine being tested.
  Or, it may be a UNC path.

exact_path: `Path | None`
  Path to the corerun executable.
  Generally prefer 'core_root' to this.

commit_hash: `str | None`
  Optional; git commit hash that Core_Root was built from.
  On Windows, if SigCheck was installed,
  the test runner will verify that CoreRun.exe was tagged with this hash.
  On non-Windows this is just for information.

architecture: `"amd64" | "x86" | "arm64" | "arm32" | None`
  On Windows, if SigCheck was installed, the test runner will verify that
  CoreRun.exe has the correct bitness corresponding to this architecture.
  On non-Windows this is just for information.



## GCPerfSimArgs
  Represents the arguments to GCPerfSim.
  Read the GCPerfSim source for documentation.

tc: `int`
tagb: `float`
tlgb: `float`
totalMins: `float | None`
lohar: `int`
sohsi: `int`
lohsi: `int`
sohpi: `int`
lohpi: `int`
sohfi: `int`
lohfi: `int`
allocType: `"simple" | "reference"`
testKind: `"time" | "highSurvival"`


## ScoreElement

weight: `float`
  When diffing scores for two traces, this Will be multiplied by the percent difference in a metric.
  For example, if config A had a metric value of 2 and config B had a metric value of 3,
  and weight is 2, the value of the score is 50% * 2 = 100%.

  Weights may be negative to indicate that being below par is preferable.

  When considering a single trace alone, the percent difference can come from 'par'.
  If 'par' is not set, a geometric mean will be used instead.

par: `float | None`
  Expected normal value for this metric.



## TestConfigContainer
  Options for running the test in a container.
  A container is a cgroup, or a job object on windows.
  Docker containers are not yet implemented.

memory_mb: `float | None`
  Size of the container in mebibytes.

cpu_rate_hard_cap: `float | None`
  This allows fractional amounts, e.g. 2.5.

image_name: `str | None`
  Not yet implemented. This would be the name of a docker container.
